Doc-1817: [Partner ops] Manage SEPA Direct Debit mandates (#659)
swan-io/docs: docs/topics/operations/guide-manage-mandates.mdx

| I want to stop a direct debit | User wants to block future debits | [Stop or cancel a direct debit](#stop-or-cancel-a-direct-debit) |
| I want a refund | User was debited and wants money back | [Understand refund rights](#understand-refund-rights) |
| I need to register a new mandate | User received B2B mandate details from a creditor | [Send a B2B mandate registration link](#send-a-b2b-mandate-registration-link) |
| A mandate was updated and it's not working | Consent cycle was reset after an update | [Update a B2B received mandate](#update-a-b2b-received-mandate) |

---

## Send a B2B mandate registration link

To send a B2B mandate registration link from your Dashboard or add a mandate with the API, refer to the guide to [add a received direct debit mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-add-mandate/). The guide includes Dashboard steps with screenshots, as well as the full API mutation.

## Review received mandates from your Dashboard

To check existing mandates:

1. Go to **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts**.

> 1. Select the account and open the **Received direct debit mandates** tab.

Reviewer: Can you confirm the exact Dashboard tab label? The add-mandate guide writes it as Received Direct Debit Mandates (title case) — worth matching.

1. Review mandate details: creditor and debtor information, status, signature date, and last execution date.

## Update a B2B received mandate

Updating a B2B received mandate **requires your dev team**. There's no self-service option in the Dashboard.

**What you need to know:**

- Any update triggers a new consent cycle. The mandate can't be used until your user consents to the updated details.
- Once your dev team submits the update, they'll receive a consent URL. Share this URL with your user.
- After the user consents, the mandate status returns to `Enabled`.

**What to do:**

1. Collect the updated mandate details from your user (refer to the checklist in [Gather the required information](#gather-the-required-information-for-a-mandate)).
1. Pass the update request to your dev team with the **mandate ID** and the details that need changing.
1. Your dev team can follow the [Update a mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-update-mandate/) guide.
1. Once they've submitted the update, share the consent URL with your user.

> 1. If the mandate stays in `ConsentInitiationPending` for more than 24 hours, follow up with your user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the mandate stays in `ConsentPending` for more than 24 hours, follow up with your user.
```
After the update mutation the mandate is ConsentPending (active consent, URL awaiting the debtor) — per the update-mandate payload. ConsentInitiationPending is the pre-initiation / post-consent-KO state (CRED-1602, DOC-1559, both shipped Q1 2026), which needs re-initiation, not just a nudge.

:::note
Received mandates under the SDD Core scheme don't need to be registered or updated. They are managed automatically through the SEPA network.
:::

## Understand when payments are executed

> Swan checks all pending direct debit instructions at **6:00 AM CET/CEST** on the day the payment is due. At that point, Swan checks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swan checks all pending direct debit instructions at **6:00 AM CET/CEST** on the day the payment is due, following the [full execution logic](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/#received-instructions-execution). At that point, Swan checks:
```

Author: Updated

1. The mandate status is `Enabled`.
1. The account's available balance is sufficient.

If both checks pass, Swan executes the payment and the transaction status updates to `Booked`. If either check fails, Swan rejects the payment.

:::tip
If your user consents to a mandate after 6:00 AM on the due date, Swan won't process it until the next scheduled payment. Let your users know about this timing so they understand why consent might still show as pending.
:::

## Troubleshoot rejected direct debits

| Cause | How to check | What to do |
| --- | --- | --- |
| B2B mandate not consented | Mandate status is `ConsentInitiationPending` or `ConsentPending` | Initiate consent or remind your user to complete it |

> | Insufficient available balance | Check available balance (not booked) before 6:00 AM CET | Your user must add funds before the next execution date |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Insufficient available balance | Check the `Available` balance (not `Booked`) before 6:00 AM CET | Your user must add funds before the next execution date |
```
Optional — docs code-format balance names; same could apply on R12 and R81.

| Account closed or closing | Check account status | A new account is needed |

> | Invalid mandate information | Creditor's details don't match registered mandate | Contact the creditor to verify UMR and SCI |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Invalid mandate information | Creditor's details don't match registered mandate | Contact the creditor to verify the Unique Mandate Reference (UMR) and SEPA Creditor Identifier (SCI) |
```
UMR/SCI first appear here but are only spelled out later in the checklist — expand on first use.

## Stop or cancel a direct debit

Suspending or canceling a mandate **requires your dev team**. There's no self-service option in the Dashboard.

| Action | What it does | Reversible? | When to use |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Suspend** | Blocks future debits. Any pending instructions are rejected. | Yes. It can be re-enabled | User wants to temporarily pause debits from a creditor |
| **Cancel** | Permanently ends the mandate | No | User wants to permanently stop all debits from a creditor |

**What to do:**

1. Confirm with your user whether they want to suspend (temporary) or cancel (permanent).
1. Pass the request to your dev team with the **mandate ID** (visible in **Dashboard** > **Received direct debit mandates**) and the action (`suspend` or `cancel`).
1. Your dev team can follow the [Suspend a mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-suspend-mandate/) or [Cancel a mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-cancel-mandate/) guide.

:::note
If your integration already supports this, your user may be able to do it directly from your product's interface.
:::

> **Can't reach your dev team?** Contact Swan support with the mandate ID and requested action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stop or cancel a direct debit

Suspending a mandate **requires your dev team** — there's no self-service option in the Dashboard. There's also no action to permanently cancel a mandate; `OneOff` mandates are canceled automatically after they're used.

| Action | What it does | Reversible? | When to use |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Suspend** | Blocks future debits. Any pending instructions are rejected. | Yes. It can be re-enabled. | User wants to stop debits from a creditor. |

**What to do:**

1. Confirm your user wants to stop debits from the creditor.
1. Pass the request to your dev team with the **mandate ID** (visible in the **Received direct debit mandates** tab).
1. Your dev team can follow the [Suspend a mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-suspend-mandate/) guide. To resume debits later, they can [enable the mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-enable-mandate/).

:::note
If your integration already supports this, your user may be able to suspend debits directly from your product's interface.
:::

**Can't reach your dev team?** Contact Swan support with the mandate ID.
```

Reviewer: No cancel mutation exists (add/enable/suspend/update only), and guide-cancel-mandate 404s. Canceled is only ever reached automatically — OneOff mandates after use. Kept the heading so #stop-or-cancel-a-direct-debit stays valid.

Author: Updated this - canceled exists internally.

:::

## Understand direct debit mandates

When a company (creditor) needs to take money from your user's account (for subscriptions, rent, utilities, or other recurring payments), they use a direct debit. When your user (debtor) is a business, they authorize this by signing a mandate.

Here are the key terms you'll see in the Dashboard and on mandate documents:

| Term | What it means |
| --- | --- |
| **Mandate** | Allows a creditor to take money from the account. |
| **Creditor** | The company collecting the money. |
| **Debtor** | The account holder (your user) being debited, either an individual or business. |
| **SCI / ICS** | The creditor's unique identifier (SEPA Creditor Identifier / Identifiant Créancier SEPA). You'll need this when raising a Swan Support request. |
| **UMR / RUM** | The Unique Mandate Reference that identifies this specific mandate. You'll need this when raising a Swan Support request. |

:::info Payment aggregators

Some payment aggregators use their own SCI / ICS for smaller merchants. This doesn't change what you should ask the user to check: creditor name, SCI / ICS, UMR / RUM, debtor IBAN, and mandate scheme.

:::

> ### Core vs. B2B: what's the difference?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Differences between Core and B2B mandates
```

Swan supports two SDD schemes. The key difference is how they're set up:

| Scheme | Who can use it | How it's created | Refund rights | Can be suspended or canceled? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | **Core** | Individuals and business accounts in Euros between accounts in the Single Euro Payments area (SEPA) only | Automatically. Swan creates it when the first direct debit instruction arrives. No registration needed. | Yes, up to 8 calendar weeks (no questions asked) or 13 months (unauthorized). | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Core** | Individuals and business accounts in euros between accounts in the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) only | Automatically. Swan creates it when the first direct debit instruction arrives. No registration needed. | Yes, up to 8 calendar weeks (no questions asked) or 13 months (unauthorized). | Yes |
```

| **B2B** | Businesses only | Manually. The user must sign, register, and consent to the mandate before use. | None | Yes |

> **How to tell them apart:** if a mandate document doesn't mention **B2B** or **business-to-business**, it's a Core mandate. No action needed. The details appear in the Dashboard once the creditor sends the first direct debit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How to tell them apart:** If a mandate document doesn't mention **B2B** or **business-to-business**, it's a Core mandate. No action needed. The details appear in the Dashboard once the creditor sends the first direct debit.
```

Author: Updated

:::tip Core mandate documents

If your user sends you a Core mandate document, let them know no action is needed. They don't need to send it to Swan.

:::

### What the mandate statuses mean

A mandate must have the status `Enabled` in the Dashboard to work. Any other status means the next direct debit will fail.

| Status in the Dashboard | What's going on | What to do |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Enabled` | The mandate is active. | If a direct debit still failed, check the account balance, that the account status is `Enabled`, or whether the creditor details match. |
| `ConsentInitiationPending` or `ConsentPending` | The user hasn't finished setting up or consenting to the B2B mandate yet. | Ask them to complete the approval before the payment due date. If stuck, walk them through it in your product or raise a Swan Support request. |

> | `Suspended` | The mandate is temporarily blocked. No debits can go through. | Check with the user, do they want to keep it blocked or resume it? To resume it, your user can do this from your product if your integration supports it. Otherwise, raise a Swan Support request. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Suspended` | The mandate is temporarily blocked. No debits can go through. | Check with the user: do they want to keep it blocked or resume it? To resume it, your user can do this from your product if your integration supports it. Otherwise, raise a Swan Support request. |
```

| I need to register a new mandate. | They received B2B mandate details from a creditor. | [Register a new B2B mandate](#register-a-new-b2b-mandate) |
| A mandate was updated and isn't working. | Consent cycle was reset after an update. | [Update a B2B received mandate](#update-a-b2b-received-mandate) |
| I want to stop a direct debit. | They want to pause or permanently stop future debits. | [Stop or cancel a direct debit mandate](#stop-or-cancel-a-direct-debit-mandate) |
| I want a refund. | They were debited and want the money back. | [Understand refund rights](#understand-refund-rights) |
| They sent you a Core mandate document. | Core mandates are created automatically. | No action needed. |

---

## Look up a mandate in the Dashboard

When a query comes in, start by looking up the mandate.

1. Go to **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts**.
2. Select the account and open the **Received Direct Debit Mandates** tab.
3. Review mandate details: creditor name, SCI / ICS, UMR / RUM, debtor IBAN, sequence type, status, signature date, and last execution date.

> From here, you can figure out whether the user needs to approve the mandate, contact the creditor, add funds, or whether you need to raise a Swan support request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From here, you can figure out whether the user needs to approve the mandate, contact the creditor, add funds, or whether you need to raise a Swan Support request.
```

---

## Register a new B2B mandate

Your user should register B2B mandates through your product or the Dashboard whenever possible. The person completing it must be authorized to manage payments on the account, usually the legal representative.

To send a B2B mandate registration link from your Dashboard or add a mandate with the API, refer to the guide to [add a received direct debit mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-add-mandate/). The guide includes Dashboard steps with screenshots as well as the full API mutation.

### Register the mandate on your user's behalf

1. Ask if they can access the registration link in your product or Dashboard.
2. If yes, point them to it and ask them to complete the registration.
3. If they can't access or complete it, raise a request to Swan Support with the required mandate information.

:::info Authorization

Registering a B2B mandate is similar to authorizing a payment; the legal representative or someone with payment permissions must complete it.

:::

---

## Update a B2B received mandate

> Updating a B2B received mandate can only be done through the API, it's not available in the Dashboard. If your development team has integrated the [update mandate](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-update-mandate) feature, your user can update the mandate from your product. The update requires a [user access token](https://docs.swan.io/developers/using-api/authentication/#tokens-user) from an account member with the `canInitiatePayments` permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only update a B2B received mandate through the API; it's not available in the Dashboard. If your development team has integrated the [update mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-update-mandate) feature, your user can update the mandate from your product. The update requires a [user access token](/developers/using-api/authentication/#tokens-user) from an account member with the `canInitiatePayments` permission.
```

> If your integration doesn't support this yet, raise a [Swan support request](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) with the mandate ID and the details that need changing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your integration doesn't support this yet, raise a [Swan Support request](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) with the mandate ID and the details that need changing.
```

1. **To suspend:** If your integration supports it, direct your user to suspend the mandate from your product's interface. If it doesn't, raise a [Swan Support request](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) with the mandate ID.
1. **To cancel:** Raise a [Swan Support request](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) with the mandate ID and confirmation that the user wants to permanently cancel.

:::tip Integration

Your development team can integrate the [suspend](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-suspend-mandate/) and [enable](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-enable-mandate/) mutations so your users can manage mandates directly from your product.

:::

---

## Understand when payments are executed

Swan checks all pending direct debit instructions at **6:00 AM CET/CEST** on the day the payment is due, following the [full execution logic](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/#received-instructions-execution). At that point, Swan checks that:

1. The mandate status is `Enabled`.

> 2. The account's available balance is sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The statuses of the mandate, the account, and the debtor's IBAN are all `Enabled`.
2. The account's `Available` balance is sufficient.
```

If both checks pass, Swan executes the payment and the transaction status updates to `Booked`. If either check fails, Swan rejects the payment.

:::tip Consent timing

> If your user consents to a mandate after 6:00 AM CET on the due date, Swan won't process it until the next scheduled payment. Let your users know about this timing so they understand why their consent might still show as pending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your user consents to a mandate after 6:00 AM CET/CEST on the due date, Swan won't process it until the next scheduled payment. Let your users know about this timing so they understand why their consent might still show as pending.
```

| Insufficient available balance | Check the `Available` balance (not `Booked`) before 6:00 AM CET/CEST. | Your user must add funds before the next execution date. |
| Account closed or closing | Check account status in the Dashboard. | Your user needs to open a new account. All payment mandates for incoming SEPA Direct Debits are canceled, and attempted incoming direct debits are rejected. |
| Invalid mandate information | Creditor's details, SCI / ICS, UMR / RUM, or debtor IBAN don't match registered mandate. | Contact the creditor to verify details. For B2B, the mandate may need to be updated and approved again. |
| Core mandate not visible yet | The creditor hasn't sent the first direct debit instruction yet. | Let the user know there's nothing to do. The mandate appears automatically when the first direct debit arrives. |

---

## Understand refund rights

Your user's refund rights depend on their mandate scheme. For full details, including timelines for returns and creditor reversals, refer to the [SEPA Direct Debit specifications](https://docs.swan.io/topics/payments/direct-debit/#specifications).

> ###Quick reference for your support conversations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Quick reference for your support conversations
```

If the user hasn't contacted the creditor, ask them to try resolving it directly with the creditor first. Swan will ask for this evidence.

:::

#### Step 4: Raise a Swan Support request
Submit a request via the [Partner support request form](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) including all details from the *Contact Swan Support* section.

---

## Contact Swan Support

Raise a request using the [Partner support request form](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new).

Before submitting a request, collect the relevant information from the Dashboard (**Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts** > select the account > **Received Direct Debit Mandates**).

Contact Swan Support if:
- A direct debit was rejected and the mandate, account status, and balance all look correct.
- A B2B mandate should be `Enabled` but is stuck in a pending status.
- The user can't complete the B2B mandate registration link.
- A mandate needs to be suspended, resumed, or canceled and your integration doesn't support it yet.
- You need help investigating a rejection that doesn't match the causes in this guide.
- A user is requesting a Core direct debit refund.

> ### Always include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Always include
```

- Account ID
- Mandate ID
- Mandate scheme: Core or B2B
- Mandate status
- Creditor name
- SEPA Creditor Identifier (SCI / ICS)
- Unique Mandate Reference (UMR / RUM)
- Debtor IBAN
- Expected vs. actual behavior
- Any API error messages from your development team.

> - Supporting files or screenshots, if relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any API error messages from your development team
- Supporting files or screenshots, if relevant
```
These are label-style fragments, so per our list rule they don't take fullstops, matching the rest of each checklist. Left R278–279 as-is since those are imperative sentences and keep theirs.

> ### For B2B mandate requests, also include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For B2B mandate requests, also include
```

- Debtor's full name
- Mandate sequence type: recurrent or one-off
- Signature date
- Mandate language
- Mandate document, if available

> - Confirmation that the request came from someone authorized to manage payments on the account (usually the legal representative).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Confirmation that the request came from someone authorized to manage payments on the account (usually the legal representative)
```

> ### For refund requests, also include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For refund requests, also include
```

- Original transaction ID / Payment ID
- Transaction end-to-end ID, if available
- Direct debit / booking date
- Amount and currency
- Transaction label
- Confirmation that the transaction is Core / B2C, not B2B.
- Confirmation that the transaction is `Booked`.

> - Confirmation that no refund has already been received or initiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Confirmation that the transaction is Core / B2C, not B2B
- Confirmation that the transaction is `Booked`
- Confirmation that no refund has already been received or initiated
```

---

# Manage SEPA Direct Debit mandates

This guide helps partner support teams answer user questions about SEPA Direct Debit mandates. It covers checking mandate details in the Dashboard, [troubleshooting rejected payments](#troubleshoot-rejected-direct-debits), and knowing when to [raise a Swan Support request](#contact-swan-support). For full product documentation, see the [SEPA Direct Debit overview](/topics/payments/direct-debit/) and [add a payment mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-add-mandate/) guides. For user-facing explanations, share [SEPA Direct Debit mandates](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/19637943123101) and [Direct debit overview](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/24510545177501).

:::info Key takeaways
- Mandates are stored at the **account level**. Each one represents a creditor that can take money from the account.
- Use the Dashboard to check mandate statuses, review creditor and debtor details, and find mandate IDs for Swan Support requests.
- Most mandate actions (updating, suspending) aren't available in the Dashboard. They require an API integration in your product, or a Swan Support request.

> - Swan checks mandate statuses and available balances at **6:00 AM CET/CEST** on the day the payment is due.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Swan checks mandate statuses and available balances at **6 AM (CET/CEST)** on the day the payment is due.
```

- The most common cause of rejected direct debits is incomplete B2B consents.
- Refund rights differ by scheme: SDD Core allows refunds up to 8 calendar weeks; SDD B2B has no right to refund.
- For B2B mandates, direct your user to register and consent through your product or the Dashboard. Core mandates require no action from you or your user.
:::

## Understand direct debit mandates

> When a company (creditor) needs to take money from your user's account (for subscriptions, rent, utilities, or other recurring payments), they use a direct debit. When your user (debtor) is a business, they authorize this by signing a mandate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a company (creditor) needs to take money from your user's account (for subscriptions, rent, utilities, or other recurring payments), they use a direct debit. Your user (debtor) authorizes this by signing a mandate. For B2B mandates, the user must also register the mandate and consent to it before it can be used.
```

Here are the key terms you'll see in the Dashboard and on mandate documents:

| Term | What it means |
| --- | --- |
| **Mandate** | Allows a creditor to take money from the account |
| **Creditor** | The company collecting the money |
| **Debtor** | The account holder (your user) being debited, either an individual or business |
| **SCI / ICS** | The creditor's unique identifier (SEPA Creditor Identifier / Identifiant Créancier SEPA). You'll need this when raising a Swan Support request |
| **UMR / RUM** | The Unique Mandate Reference that identifies this specific mandate. You'll need this when raising a Swan Support request |

:::info Payment aggregators

Some payment aggregators use their own SCI / ICS for smaller merchants. This doesn't change what you should ask the user to check: creditor name, SCI / ICS, UMR / RUM, debtor IBAN, and mandate scheme.

:::

### Differences between Core and B2B mandates

Swan supports two SDD schemes. The key difference is how they're set up:

| Scheme | Who can use it | How it's created | Refund rights | Can be suspended? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | **Core** | Individuals and business accounts in euros between accounts in the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) only | Automatically. Swan creates it when the first direct debit instruction arrives. No registration needed. | Yes, up to 8 calendar weeks (no questions asked) or 13 months (unauthorized). | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Core** | Individuals and businesses | Automatically. Swan creates it when the first direct debit instruction arrives. No registration needed. | Yes, up to 8 calendar weeks (no questions asked) or 13 months (unauthorized). | Yes |
```
The euros/SEPA constraint applies to both schemes, so it doesn't belong in a Core-vs-B2B differentiator cell. We can move the SEPA note above the table if needed.

:::tip Core mandate documents

If your user sends you a Core mandate document, let them know no action is needed. They don't need to send it to Swan.

:::

### What the mandate statuses mean

A mandate must have the status `Enabled` in the Dashboard to work. Any other status means the next direct debit will fail.

| Status in the Dashboard | What's going on | What to do |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Enabled` | The mandate is active. | If a direct debit still failed, check the account balance, that the account status is `Enabled`, or whether the creditor details match. |
| `ConsentInitiationPending` or `ConsentPending` | The user hasn't finished setting up or consenting to the B2B mandate yet. | Ask them to complete the approval before the payment due date. If stuck, walk them through it in your product or raise a Swan Support request. |
| `Suspended` | The mandate is temporarily blocked. No debits can go through. | Check with the user: do they want to keep it blocked or resume it? To resume it, your user can do this from your product if your integration supports it. Otherwise, raise a Swan Support request. |

> | `Canceled` | The mandate has been permanently canceled. | Future debits from this creditor are rejected. The user may need a new mandate or updated instructions from the creditor. This can only be actioned through a Swan Support request. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Canceled` | The mandate has been permanently canceled. | Future debits from this creditor are rejected. The user may need a new mandate or updated instructions from the creditor. Canceling a mandate is only possible through a Swan Support request. |
```

---

## Register a new B2B mandate

Your user should register B2B mandates through your product or the Dashboard whenever possible. The person completing it must be authorized to manage payments on the account, usually the legal representative.

To send a B2B mandate registration link from your Dashboard or add a mandate with the API, see the guide to [add a received direct debit mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-add-mandate/). The guide includes Dashboard steps with screenshots as well as the full API mutation.

### Register the mandate on your user's behalf

1. Ask if they can access the registration link in your product or Dashboard.
1. If yes, point them to it and ask them to complete the registration.
1. If they can't access or complete it, raise a [Swan Support request](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) with the required mandate information.

:::info Authorization

Registering a B2B mandate is similar to authorizing a payment; the legal representative or someone with payment permissions must complete it.

:::

---

## Update a B2B received mandate

> You can only update a B2B received mandate through the API; it's not available in the Dashboard. If your development team has integrated the [update mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-update-mandate) feature, your user can update the mandate from your product. The update requires a [user access token](/developers/using-api/authentication/#tokens-user) from an account member with the `canInitiatePayments` permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only update a B2B received mandate through the API; it's not available in the Dashboard. If your development team has integrated the [update mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-update-mandate/) feature, your user can update the mandate from your product. The update requires a [user access token](/developers/using-api/authentication/#tokens-user) from an account member with the `canInitiatePayments` permission.
```

:::caution Consent cycle reset

Any update triggers a new consent cycle. The mandate can't be used until your user consents to the updated details. Once the user consents, the mandate status returns to `Enabled`. Warn the user if a payment is due soon; if they don't approve in time, the next direct debit will fail.

:::

---

## Stop or cancel a direct debit

Suspending a mandate isn't available in the Dashboard. It requires an API integration in your product.

:::info No cancel action available

There isn't a public API action to permanently cancel a mandate. The `Canceled` status exists, but partners can't set it directly. A mandate can become `Canceled` through Swan-side processes, such as automatic cancellation of `OneOff` mandates after they're used. Suspending a mandate is effectively permanent unless someone re-enables it.

:::

| Action | What it does | Reversible? | When to use |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Suspend** | Blocks future debits. Any pending instructions are rejected. | Yes. It can be re-enabled. | User wants to stop debits from a creditor. |

### What to do

1. Confirm your user wants to stop debits from the creditor.

> 1. If your development team has integrated the [suspend mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-suspend-mandate) feature, direct your user to suspend the mandate from your product. To resume debits later, they can [re-enable the mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-enable-mandate).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your development team has integrated the [suspend mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-suspend-mandate/) feature, direct your user to suspend the mandate from your product. To resume debits later, they can [re-enable the mandate](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-enable-mandate/).
```

1. If your integration doesn't support this yet, raise a [Swan Support request](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) with the mandate ID.

:::tip Add this to your product

> Your development team can integrate the [suspend](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-suspend-mandate) and [enable](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-enable-mandate) mutations so your users can manage mandates directly from your product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your development team can integrate the [suspend](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-suspend-mandate/) and [enable](/topics/payments/direct-debit/guide-enable-mandate/) mutations so your users can manage mandates directly from your product.
```

:::

---

## Understand when payments are executed

> Swan checks all pending direct debit instructions at **6:00 AM CET/CEST** on the day the payment is due, following the [full execution logic](/topics/payments/direct-debit/#received-instructions-execution). At that point, Swan checks that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swan checks all pending direct debit instructions at **6 AM (CET/CEST)** on the day the payment is due, following the [full execution logic](/topics/payments/direct-debit/#received-instructions-execution). At that point, Swan checks that:
```

1. The statuses of the mandate, the account, and the debtor's IBAN are all `Enabled`.
1. The account's `Available` balance is sufficient.

If both checks pass, Swan executes the payment and the transaction status updates to `Booked`. If either check fails, Swan rejects the payment.

:::tip Consent timing

> If your user consents to a mandate after 6:00 AM CET/CEST on the due date, Swan won't process it until the next scheduled payment. Let your users know about this timing so they understand why their consent might still show as pending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your user consents to a mandate after 6 AM (CET/CEST) on the due date, Swan won't process it until the next scheduled payment. Let your users know about this timing so they understand why their consent might still show as pending.
```

:::

---

## Troubleshoot rejected direct debits

| Cause | How to check | What to do |
| --- | --- | --- |
| B2B mandate not approved/consented | Mandate status isn't `Enabled` (shows `ConsentInitiationPending` or `ConsentPending`). | Initiate consent or remind your user to complete it. You can resend the consent request if needed. |

> | Insufficient available balance | Check the `Available` balance (not `Booked`) before 6:00 AM CET/CEST. | Your user must add funds before the next execution date. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Insufficient available balance | Check the `Available` balance (not `Booked`) before 6 AM (CET/CEST). | Your user must add funds before the next execution date. |
```

### Quick reference for your support conversations

- **Core mandates**
  - Your user can request a refund up to **8 calendar weeks** after execution, no questions asked.
  - They can request a refund up to **13 months** after execution, but only if there wasn't a valid mandate or the payment wasn't authorized.
  - For a refund after 8 weeks, collect the user's evidence and raise a Swan Support request.
  - No partial refunds: the refund is for the full original transaction amount.
- **B2B mandates**
  - **No refund rights.** Under the SEPA B2B rulebook, debtors have no right to a refund for an authorized transaction. Because the debtor's bank is required to verify the mandate before every payment is executed, the SEPA B2B rulebook treats each transaction as fully authorized and final.
  - If your user asks, explain that they agreed to this when they signed and approved the mandate. If they believe the direct debit was unauthorized, they'll need to contact the creditor directly.

### Request a Core direct debit refund

#### Step 1: Confirm the refund is eligible

- Check that the transaction is a **SEPA Core / B2C Direct Debit**
- Confirm the transaction status is `Booked`

> - Verify no partial refunds are requested (refunds must be for the full original amount)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check that the transaction is a **SEPA Core / B2C Direct Debit**.
- Confirm the transaction status is `Booked`.
- Verify no partial refunds are requested (refunds must be for the full original amount).
```

:::caution Creditor contact required

If the user hasn't contacted the creditor, ask them to try resolving it directly with the creditor first. Swan will ask for this evidence.

:::

#### Step 4: Raise a Swan Support request

Submit a request via the [Partner support request form](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new) including all details from the [Contact Swan Support](#contact-swan-support) section.

---

## Contact Swan Support

Raise a request using the [Partner support request form](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new).

Before submitting a request, collect the relevant information from the Dashboard (**Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts** > select the account > **Received Direct Debit Mandates**).

Contact Swan Support if:
- A direct debit was rejected and the mandate, account status, and balance all look correct
- A B2B mandate should be `Enabled` but is stuck in a pending status
- The user can't complete the B2B mandate registration link
- A mandate needs to be suspended or resumed and your integration doesn't support it yet
- You need help investigating a rejection that doesn't match the causes in this guide

> - A user is requesting a Core direct debit refund

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contact Swan Support if:
- A direct debit was rejected and the mandate, account status, and balance all look correct.
- A B2B mandate should be `Enabled` but is stuck in a pending status.
- The user can't complete the B2B mandate registration link.
- A mandate needs to be suspended or resumed and your integration doesn't support it yet.
- You need help investigating a rejection that doesn't match the causes in this guide.
- A user is requesting a Core direct debit refund.
```
